There is something common to every successful marriage between two Christians.
It is their putting Jehovah first and supporting each other's personal dedication to God.
This is certainly true with Viv and Anne Moritz, serving in the Australasia branch.
They've been married for 65 years and have a combined 1931 years and full-time service.
According to their advice for younger ones, deciding what to do in Jehovah's organization.
I started pioneering in November, 1948, and it's a while to go now.
And that's what I thought I would do, pioneering.
So I said, well, if I do what you ask me, I accept whatever assignment you give me and
I'll just go where you send me.
And I won't seek an assignment, but I won't refuse one.
That's what I intended to do as far as I knew.
And then I'd only been pioneering about a year when I got this envelope.
And I'd let her say, please fill in, then close for.
It was an application for Bethel.
And I thought, couldn't I didn't think of Bethel?
I told Jehovah I'd go where he sent me, so don't do it, you just do it.
I was working in a printer, cleaning out old ink tins and making schedules for printing and so on.
And then I got to work on a press too.
But I wasn't there very long when they moved me to the office.
Well, you learn a lot in Bethel.
Learn how to live with your brothers, which you're not used to.
You learn about Jehovah's organization, you see how it operates.
I had the privilege of working alongside brothers who had lots of experience.
I got assigned to a Metropolitan Congregation.
That's where Anne was.
Here we got married in October 1951.
And two weeks later, I started pioneering.
I was 20 at that time when we started circuit work.
And I'd only pioneered for years.
So of course, I was very worried and scared about having to witness with sisters.
The pioneered for years.
And some of them even of the anointed.
I, yeah, I cried half made of milk.
I'm very close to the brothers and sisters and especially to the children.
So we really loved that.
And then we got the opportunity to go to
go to New York, Dean's National Convention in 1958.
When the society found out we were going, they sent us an application for Gilly.
And we thought, oh my goodness, how can we do that?
So we said, well, we don't say no.
After 58 convention, we were assigned to special pioneer in Canada for six months.
Brother Norse and we were in cold storage.
That 40 hours from British Commonwealth countries.
So that was a good experience too.
We saw winter for the first time.
I did anyway.
And we took pictures of snow and ice and ice and it was to show.
And our son met when we got it to India or Africa or somewhere.
And you have a sense of humor, a sense of feeling.
Well, the schooling you get from Gilead or the other schools
helps you to see Jehovah's organization and how it works.
We didn't know a lot about Finland except that we knew it was cold and clean
and a long way from Australia.
Being so far from Australia, we didn't, we knew that we wouldn't be able to get home
to see our families not for a long, long time.
When we moved into Finland, the brothers in Russia and those countries
were on the ban.
They needed spiritual food and so it had to be supplied to them.
So we used to send people in as tourists and they would meet the brothers
they had delivered the food to them.
Without Jehovah's blessing and his spirit, we couldn't have done this tool.
It's amazing to think that the amount of spiritual food that got in there.
They translated it and they made it available.
And we did that for over 20 years without any mishaps.
It couldn't happen without Jehovah's blessing.
Leaving Finland was not easy, of course.
We had mixed feelings, but actually I saw Jehovah's hand in the assignment
because we really got back to Australia to time when my parents were needing help.
So we didn't have to leave Bethel or full time service to give that help.
We were asked to go to Russia in 1999 and it turned out to be two and a half years.
I was a little apprehensive about going to Russia, but it was really
one of the most memorable assignments we've ever had.
In Russia, the brothers were not used to house-to-house work
because of all the years under ban.
And that was quite different because you go to the door.
You can't just strike up a conversation.
The person wants to know why you were there.
And you can't make a return visit on someone you met on the street
when you don't know where he lives.
Of course, he's how she do and you can make a return visit.
The brothers saw the advantage of that, but they had to learn.
It was a new thing.
Circuit overseers had to learn how to visit congregations in Polish.
Brothers came in and helped a lot with that.
It's a good work, but they too had to learn.
So it was a big change for them to come from working under ban
all their lives to now working the way the rest of the world does.
The best decision I ever made was to move my life in Jehovah's hands.
And to say, you decide where I go and what I do.
I've had the feeling all along and it's proven true so far
that everything I have done has been training for something else.
So what I'm doing now is still training.
It must be for the new world because I haven't got much time left in this one.
What will it be?
Well, who knows?
To my recommendation to everyone is, don't decide to yourself.
Let Jehovah do it.
Brother and sister Maritz always looked at Jehovah for their assignments.
For Brother Maritz, that's meant serving on the branch committees in Finland,
India, Russia, Poland, Ukraine, and Australia,
Asia, and the privilege of making visits to more than 70 countries
as a representative of World Headquarters.
We can certainly pursue any form of service that our circumstances allow,
but when we pray for Jehovah's direction,
we rely on him to send us where it benefits his organization
and ourselves the most.